= gap =
* It defines spacing between children elements both horizontally and vertically.
* `gap: 1rem`

= Grid Column =
*grid-template-columns*
* It helps in alliging columns.
* `grid-template-columns: 1fr 1fr 1fr` → It specified to divide the available space into 3 columns and give each element 1 fraction or 33% of the area.
* A more concise way to write it → `grid-template-columns: repeat(3, 1fr)`
* For much better sizing
    - `grid-template-columns: repeat(3, minmax(240px, 1fr))`
*   - It speicifes minimum width as 240px, but maximum width as 1fr allows
    - But the problem is it creates horizontal overflow.
* To make it truely responsive without hardcoding exact number of repear (here, 3), use auto-fit.
    - `grid-template-columns: repeat(auto-fit, minmax(240px, 1fr))`
* Note there is also an auto-fill options. But it creates extra columns when space available.
* `grid-template-columns: 240px auto auto 240px;` → 4 columns with fixed width of outer columns.

= Grid Rows =
*grid-template-rows*
* Same as `grid-template-column` but for rows.
* `grid-template-rows: repeat(4, 1fr);`

*All rows*
* `grid-auto-rows` makes all of the rows of same height →  `grid-auto-rows: 240px`

= Manipulate individual grid item =
*Change grid item height*
* `grid-row` allows to manipulate individual grid height.
* `grid-row: 1 / 4` → Speicifies the image to start from horizontal line 1 to horizontal line 4, i.e., span across 3 rows.
* A more flexible way to do it,
    - `grid-row: span 2 / auto`
    - It Tells the row item to span across 2 rows from its starting position and the browser to find the ending row automatically.

*Change grid item width*
* `grid-column` property allowes to manipulate individual grid width.
* Syntax same as `grid-row`
* `grid-column: span 2 / auto`

*At very small size*
* At smaller size spanning across grid lines looks very skinny.
* Hence wrap the individual grid manipulation under a media query for a min-width →   `@media screen and (min-width: 600px) { ... }` 

= Explicit grid =
*grid-template-areas*
* It allows to create explicit grid by giving names to the different areas in the grid.
    {{{
        grid-template-areas:
            'a  b   c   d'
            'l  ✗   ✗   e'
            'k  ✗   ✗   f'
            'j  i   h   g'
    }}}
* Then we can bind any element to individual explicit grid name, no matter where it is in the container.
    {{{
        .card1 {
            grid-area: a;
        }
        
        .card2 {
            grid-area: b;
        }
        
        /* replace all the ✗ area with one element */
        .card_main {
            grid-area: ✗;
        }
    }}}
