= Variable =
* In Sass, variables start with a `$` followed by the variable name. 
{{{
    $main-fonts: Arial, sans-serif;

    h1 {
        font-family: $main-fonts;
    }
}}}

= Nesting =
* Sass allows placing child style rules within the respective parent elements.
{{{
    ul {
        list-style: none;

        li {
            display: inline-block;
        }
    }
}}}

= Mixins = 
* A mixin is a group of CSS declarations that can be reused throughout the style sheet.
* The definition starts with `@mixin` followed by a custom name.
* Mixins can take parameters, although optional.
{{{
    @mixin box-shadow($x, $y, $blur, $c){ 
        -webkit-box-shadow: $x $y $blur $c;
        -moz-box-shadow: $x $y $blur $c;
        -ms-box-shadow: $x $y $blur $c;
        box-shadow: $x $y $blur $c;
    }
}}}
* A mixin is called with the `@include` directive:
{{{
    div {
        @include box-shadow(0px, 0px, 4px, #fff);
    }
}}}

= if-else Statement =
{{{
    @mixin text-color($val) {
        @if $val == danger {
            color: red;
        }
        @else if $val == alert {
            color: yellow;
        }
        @else if $val == success {
            color: green;
        }
        @else {
            color: black;
        }
    }
}}}

= for Loop =
* `@for` is used in two ways: `start through end` or `start to end`.
* `start to end` →  excludes the end number as part of the count.
* `start through end` → includes the end number as part of the count.

*Create twelve options for column widths available as CSS classes*
{{{
    @for $i from 1 through 12 {
        .col-#{$i} {
            width: 100%/12 * $i ;
        }
    }
}}}
* `#{$i}` converts `i` to a string.
* When the previous Sass code is converted to CSS, it looks like,
{{{
    .col-1 {
        width: 8.33333%;
    }

    .col-2 {
        width: 16.66667%;
    }

    ...

    .col-12 {
        width: 100%;
    }
}}}

= each Loop =
* `@each` directive which loops over each item in a list or map.

*each loop over a list*
{{{
    @each $color in blue, red, green {
        .#{$color}-text {color: $color;}
    }
}}}

*each loop over a map*
{{{
    $colors: (color1: blue, color2: red, color3: green);

    @each $key, $color in $colors {
        .#{$color}-text {color: $color;}
    }
}}}
* Note that the $key variable is needed to reference the keys in the map. Otherwise, the compiled CSS would have color1, color2... in it.

= while Loop =
* It creates CSS rules until a condition is met.

*Create twelve options for column widths available as CSS classes*
{{{
    $x: 1;
    @while $x < 13 {
        .col-#{$x} { width: 100%/12 * $x;}
        $x: $x + 1;
    }
}}}

= Partials =
* Partials in Sass are separate files that hold segments of CSS code.
* Names for partials start with the underscore (_) character.
* Sass files end with the `.scss` file extension.
* To bring the code in the partial into another Sass file, use the `@import` directive.
* So we can import a partial named `_mixins.scss` → `@import 'mixins'`

= extend Directive =
* `@extend` directive allows to borrow the CSS rules from one element to another.
{{{
    .text {
        font-size: 2em;
    }
    
    .red-text {
        @extend .text;
        color: red;
    }
}}}
